1. “Nobody ever figures out what life is all about, and it doesn't matter. Explore the world. Nearly everything is really interesting if you go into it deeply enough.”
2. “Study hard what interests you the most in the most undisciplined, irreverent and original manner possible.”
3. “You have no responsibility to live up to what other people think you ought to accomplish. I have no responsibility to be like they expect me to be. It's their mistake, not my failing.”
4. “Physics is like sex: sure, it may give some practical results, but that's not why we do it.”
5. “Fall in love with some activity, and do it! Nobody ever figures out what life is all about, and it doesn't matter. Explore the world. Nearly everything is really interesting if you go into it deeply enough. Work as hard and as much as you want to on the things you like to do the best. Don't think about what you want to be, but what you want to do. Keep up some kind of a minimum with other things so that society doesn't stop you from doing anything at all.”
6. “The first principle is that you must not fool yourself and you are the easiest person to fool.”
7. “I learned very early the difference between knowing the name of something and knowing something.”
8. “I... a universe of atoms, an atom in the universe.”
9. “I would rather have questions that can't be answered than answers that can't be questioned.”
10. “Religion is a culture of faith; science is a culture of doubt.”
11. “The highest forms of understanding we can achieve are laughter and human compassion.”
12. “Physics isn't the most important thing. Love is.”
13. “I'm smart enough to know that I'm dumb.”
14. “We are trying to prove ourselves wrong as quickly as possible, because only in that way can we find progress.”
15. “If you thought that science was certain - well, that is just an error on your part.”
16. “I think it's much more interesting to live not knowing than to have answers which might be wrong.”
17. “All the time you're saying to yourself, 'I could do that, but I won't,' — which is just another way of saying that you can't.”
18. “What I am going to tell you about is what we teach our physics students in the third or fourth year of graduate school... It is my task to convince you not to turn away because you don't understand it. You see my physics students don't understand it... That is because I don't understand it. Nobody does.”
19. “Physics is to math what sex is to masturbation.”
20. “For a successful technology, reality must take precedence over public relations, for nature cannot be fooled.”
21. “So I have just one wish for you – the good luck to be somewhere where you are free to maintain the kind of integrity I have described, and where you do not feel forced by a need to maintain your position in the organization, or financial support, or so on, to lose your integrity. May you have that freedom.”
22. “I don't know what's the matter with people: they don't learn by understanding, they learn by some other way — by rote or something. Their knowledge is so fragile!”
23. “There are 10^11 stars in the galaxy. That used to be a huge number. But it's only a hundred billion. It's less than the national deficit! We used to call them astronomical numbers. Now we should call them economical numbers.”